some poisonous animals like this is a
ladybird
use color as a warning it's bright red
and that's a message which says keep
away
i'm poisonous
black and yellow are widely understood
as warnings
so the ladybird's message is a truthful
one
it is poisonous
but some animals that are in fact
harmless
have found it profitable to develop
these warning colors themselves
[Music]
this african queen butterfly like the
ladybird
is indeed very poisonous
[Music]
but this is a different species entirely
a denied butterfly
it has almost exactly the same
coloration yet it's perfectly edible
it is you might say using its colors and
patterns
to tell a lie
[Music]
to our eyes and to that of the predators
poisonous non-poisonous individuals look
almost
identical and that's the point
the denied mimics the colors and
patterns of the african queen
and so it isn't eaten
mimicry like this occurs quite
frequently among insects
the yellow and black stripes of this
harmless hoverfly
resemble the warning colors of bees and
wasps
that sting so it's left alone
other animals use mimicry to hide
this moth resembles a broken twig
a kind of mantis closely matches the
shape and colors of a leaf
another mantis is shaped and coloured
like a flower
and gets a reward for the resemblance
and one particular caterpillar has come
to look
like a tiny snake
[Music]
while this butterfly's wings take on the
appearance
of dead leaves
[Music]
you